well follow this talk about food forest
is making you hungry but you can't wait
for your own permaculture garden to
blossom then don't worry through a CSA
or a community supported agriculture
membership you can enjoy fresh local and
nutritious produce grown by train
gardeners using sustainable growing
methods we started up this program
called Alf Oregon urban family farms and
what we do is we are taking vacant
pieces of land people's yards that
aren't being used and we're converting
them to agriculture land we're going to
be producing intensive agriculture with
biodynamic principles using permit
permaculture and we'll be applying those
things to the gardens and we're going to
try to maximize our yields and also
remediate the soil we have three
thousand square feet here and what we're
doing every day is double digging which
is what Amy's doing right now throw the
leaves down this pump will go in this
will get flipped over so that grass
layer on the clump goes down
so we're working nutrients down into the
soil and we put some oyster shells in
there for calcium and then what we're
going to do is cover this back up with
those draw and are going anywhere and
we're going to let this sit and then
we'll come in and remove all this draw
plant our plants compost a straw put a
little straw back down on the garden you
can see it's a south north slope and
this water flows off this land and takes
vital topsoil off with it it takes our
water off with it all our nooner
minerals and their nutrients off of this
land and puts it down in here down in
this flat and it takes it into the
streets and that's not where we want it
so you can see the troughs they're
flowing the water down to the set of bio
swales there and then the water here
will flow down into these areas here and
we're catching all the water coming down
underneath this grass all this stuff is
coming in and being held so here we are
we are at my number three piece of land
here on forty-eighth and killingsworth
this is fall we've gone through since
the last time I spoke to you we were
doing bed prep and now we're here to
harvest and we're harvesting fruit
vegetables and seed what we're looking
at here is a guild I killed as a
companionship planting and then what we
did is we plant it in some tomato I've
got some strawberries in here which you
saw me picking there's a little bit of
some onion here and some chives and
there was a couple leaks these plants
are working with each other to draw
nutrients and minerals and water because
there's a lot of shade in there there's
a lot of ability to shade some of the
other plants that don't like straight
heat and also what I found in doing
these guilds is that I do tend to lose
some food through the work of the plans
so sometimes these tomatoes get so huge
I can't even find the carrots with the
cilantro and
you know and and I say you know what I'd
rather keep it that way and allow the
guild to function and go harvest
somewhere else and and just let it work
for itself and make the main crop really
pleased with the yields coming off of
this piece of land we're harvesting seed
I am so fortunate now to have four
hundred dollars worth of my own seed
that i could sell as a fundraiser for my
own products the stuff will dry i'll put
it in a bag shake it the bag will fill
up and then I'll store this stuff for
next year and I'll just use my own seed
and i'll sell it to some of my neighbors
and give it away to some people and a
lot of these seeds i'm going to shave up
in bags and then i'll put them in jars
airtight jars and i'll have my own seed
but since i have some that is ready and
i'm a lazy farmer I'm just going to
broadcast my seed so what we're doing
here is really just establishing a seed
crop so what we're looking at here is
garden number two this is my vertical
garden for my melons but I put up this
old recycled fence hung that stuff up
these tomatoes have gone up against
about a hundred and twenty other
tomatoes from this area everything was
tasting really nice real watery real
juicy lots of sugar well that's not a
tomato a tomato is an acidic plant if
this tomato is juicy but the flavor last
longer because the skin is so rich full
of nutrients because of the lack of
irrigation this garden has that this
garden has not been irrigated and
watered since June one of the problems
when you grow like this is you have all
these these fruits come on all at once
at all of a sudden you've got all this
food that's ready and what's happened is
I did a succession planting so what
happened was there's a wave of ripeness
that happens so the these roads started
to get right first and i would pick and
as i would pick they'd be green and then
these rows would start to ripen and i
would pick and then these roads to start
to ripen and then i would pick and then
I'd come back and we just keep doing
it's wave of harvesting and now
everything's ripe so here we are Oregon
urban family farms had a wonderful year
this year permaculture bio dynamics
learning the ropes learning the
relationships with the companionship
planting creating relationships with my
neighbors with other businesses around
the community it's all about the food
this is what we need we need it local we
need a nutrient dense and we need it now
and this is how we do it we take and
convert these yards and turn them into
bounties of food and money so I'm Gordon
Westfall bringing you the tools to be
sustainable today